Recurring Action Documentation (#124)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/administration/pages/recurring-actions.adoc

[[recurring-actions]]
= Recurring Actions

> Scheduling recurring actions allows you to manage schedules for automated recurring highstate execution on minion, group and organization level depending on the frequency you choose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scheduling recurring actions allows you to manage schedules for automated recurring highstate execution on minion, group, and organization level depending on the frequency you choose.
```
And "client" or "Salt client" instead of "minion"? If yes, we should also change it later on.

Author: Just "Salt clients" in our case not traditional ones.

You can also get an overview of all existing schedules you have access to.

== Managing Recurring Action Schedules

> You can access the Recurring Action feature via the following ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the recurring action feature use one the following options.
```

=== Minion Recurring Actions

> In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems, and select the minion you want to configure schedules for. Now select the menu:States [Recurring States] tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems, and select the minion you want to configure schedules for.
Then select the menu:States[Recurring States] tab.
```

=== Group Recurring Actions

> In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems [System Groups], and select the group you want to configure schedules for. Now select the menu:States [Recurring States] tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems[System Groups], and select the group you want to configure schedules for.
Then select the menu:States[Recurring States] tab.
```

=== Organization Recurring Actions

> Depending on your user role there are two ways to handle Recurring Actions on organization level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your user role there are two ways to handle recurring actions on organization level.
```

> * If you are an organization admin you can access all recurring actions created for your organization from menu:Home [MyOrganization [Recurring States]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are an organization admin you can access all recurring actions created for your organization from menu:Home[MyOrganization > Recurring States].
```

> * If you are the {productname}-admin you can access all recurring actions from menu:Admin [Organizations] then select the organization you want to manage and navigate to the menu:States [Recurring States] tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are the {productname} administrator you can access all recurring actions from menu:Admin [Organizations].
Then select the organization you want to manage and navigate to the menu:States[Recurring States] tab.
```

=== List of all Recurring Actions

> If you want to see all recurring action schedules that you have access to navigate to menu:Schedule [Recurring Actions].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to see all recurring action schedules that you have access to navigate to menu:Schedule[Recurring Actions].
```

[NOTE]
====
On deleting a user all schedules that the user created will be deleted as well.
====

== Creating a new Recurring Action

> Depending on the target you want to create an action for navigate to the before mentioned place.

Reviewer: This is unclear.  Please repeat the "mentioned place" here literally again.

* Click the btn:[Create] button.
* Enter a name for the schedule you want to create.

> * Chose the frequency you want the action to be executed in. You have the following options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Chose the frequency you want the action to be executed in:
```

> ** [guimenu]``Hourly:`` Select the minute of the hour that you want the action to be executed. This will execute the action every hour at the specified minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** [guimenu]``Hourly:`` Select the minute of the hour when you want the action to be executed.
The action will be executed every hour at the specified minute.
```

** [guimenu]``Daily:`` Select the time at which the action should be executed every day.

> ** [guimenu]``Weekly:`` Select the day of the week and the time of the day. The action will be executed every week at the specified time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** [guimenu]``Weekly:`` Select the day of the week and the time of the day.
The action will be executed every week at the specified time.
```

> ** [guimenu]``Monthly:`` Select the day of the month and the time of the day. The action will execute every month at the chosen time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** [guimenu]``Monthly:`` Select the day of the month and the time of the day. The action will execute every month at the specified time.
```

> ** [guimenu]``Custom Quartz format:`` If you can't select the frequency you desire with the above pickers you have the option to enter a custom quartz string. e.g. "0 15 2 ? * 7" (without the quotes and each number separated by space)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** [guimenu]``Custom Quartz format:`` If you can not select the frequency you desire with the above options you can specify a custom quartz string.
For example (each number separated by space):
+
----
0 15 2 ? * 7
----
```

* You can chose whether you want the action to be executed in [guimenu]``Test mode``.

> * Once you are confident about the data you entered press the btn:[Create Schedule] button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Confirm with clicking the btn:[Create Schedule] button.
```

> * You will be redirected back to the list of existing actions. Your newly created action should have appeared here as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You will be redirected to the list of existing actions.
Your newly created action will appear there as well.
```

[NOTE]
===

> Creating a new recurring action from the list of all actions is not possible, please create a new action from the respective location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a new recurring action from the list of all actions is not possible.
You must create a new action from the locations listed above.
```

===

== Disabling a Recurring Action

> From the list of recurring actions you have the option to disable an action without deleting it. Just click the slider in the [guimenu]``Active`` column. You can re enable it at any time. The action will stop being executed as long as it is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the list of recurring actions you can disable an action without deleting it.
To disable a recurring action click the slider in the [guimenu]``Active`` column.
As long as a recurring is disabled, it will no longer be executed.
You can enable it again at any time.
```

== Recurring Action Details

> You can view the details about your action from the action list. Click the first of the three buttons displayed in the last column of the action you want to view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view the details about your action from the action list.
Click the first of the three buttons displayed in the last column of the action you want to view.
```

== Edit Recurring Actions

To edit an existing recurring action select the second of the three buttons in the last column of the action that you want to edit.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This will redirect you to the page for creating/editing actions pre filled with the current properties of your action. Please refer to the [guimenu]``Creating a new Recurring Action`` section for guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will redirect you to the page for creating and editing actions prefilled with the current properties of your action.
For more information, see the [guimenu]``Creating a new Recurring Action`` section.
```

== Deleting a Recurring Action

> To delete an action please click the last of the three buttons displayed in the last column of the action you want to delete. A confirmation window should pop up. If you are certain that you really want to delete the action press btn:[Delete].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete an action click the last of the three buttons displayed in the last column of the action you want to delete.
A confirmation window will pop up.
Confirm the deletion with clicking the btn:[Delete] button.
```
